[Music]
twelve really weird things our ancestors
did if you believe that people were less
eccentric in the past than they are
today
think of their fashions and traditions
maybe you'll change your opinion we've
gathered 12 really strange things that
our ancestors thought normal for example
using stones instead of toilet paper
can't wait for that one Kenya all right
counting down number 12
first and second sleep Europeans who
lived in the Middle Ages practice what
we now call biphasic sleep
the first sleep started at sunset and
lasted until about midnight then people
would wake up and stay awake for two to
three hours some use that time to pray
or read and some spend it with their
family or neighbors then came the time
of the second sleep which lasted until
sunrise these days we have the first
second third fourth and sometimes fifth
sleep depending of course on how often
the baby cries number 11
live alarm clocks you're gonna love this
a knocker upper was a profession that
existed from the mid 18th century until
the 1950s their job was to wake people
who had to get up early they knocked on
their clients windows with sticks or
shot at them with pea shooters it's
unclear who woke up the knocker robbers
but there's a version that they didn't
go to bed before work at all nowadays
knocker uppers is simply slang for dad
number ten dresses for boys from the
16th century until around 1920 it was
customary for little boys up until a
certain age four to eight years to wear
dresses the main reason was perhaps the
high cost of clothing dresses were
easier to make to grow into the
tradition didn't bypass even royal
families this photo depicts Alexi the
son of the russian emperor nicholas ii
in a dress similar to those worn by his
sisters it's obvious how much he loves
it
number nine chopping chopping also known
as szekely or P&L are a kind of platform
shoe up to 20 inches or 50 centimetres
high small wonder that those who wore
them require the help of servants in
order not to fall victim to fashion
admittedly choe pians were warned not
just out of style consciousness but also
so as not to stain the wearer's clothes
in street mud and of course it was also
a great look for Elton John dig the
shoes
[Music]
number eight bloodletting against all
diseases this treatment mode was popular
for 2,000 years up until the early 20th
century bloodletting was practiced to
treat any ailment and often did more
harm than good
weakening the patient even further now
that's probably enough blood he's
starting to look a little pruney
number seven poor hygiene in some
medieval countries people believe that
water only brought illness to man and
lice were called the pearls of God these
beliefs were shared even by monarchs
Isabella the first of Castile was proud
of the fact that she only washed twice
in her life at birth and before her
wedding according to one testimony a
Cavalier once made a comment upon her
dirty hands and nails to which the Queen
replied ow if he could only see my fate
number six
post mortem photos another custom that
today seems very bizarre however in the
19th century it was a way to preserve
the memory of deceased loved ones as a
rule the dead bodies were fashioned to
appear alive in the photograph they were
seated in natural poses and eyes were
drawn on their closed eyelids as in the
image above this must been really
popular around Halloween number five
radioactive beauty products in the early
20th century radiation was perceived
exclusively as a positive phenomenon
which swindlers didn't fail to take
advantage of you could buy cosmetics
food and drinks enriched with radium and
thorium radioactive souvenirs and even
devices for saturating water with
radioactive elements
sadly there were casualties athlete eben
Byers drank huge doses of the radium
based medicine Raider Thor which led to
his death The Wall Street Journal
reacted to the sad incident with a
headline reading the radium water worked
fine until his jaw came off ah but what
a healthy looking glow number four
heroin as a cough remedy surprisingly
100 years ago heroin was considered a
harmless alternative to morphine and was
sold in pharmacies as a cough medicine
it was even recommended for children it
was later discovered that heroin turns
into morphine in the liver and in 1924
its use was prohibited in Germany
however it was only outlawed in 1971 a
gluten tag I've been seeing a cough
medicine hmm number 3
smoking onboard planes as recently as 50
or 60 years ago smoking wasn't regarded
as that bad a habit people didn't deny
themselves this dubious pleasure even
during flights regardless of the
presence of other passengers today
smoking in planes is prohibited but in
some countries such as in Iran the ban
hasn't been implemented number 2 bathing
machines unlike us people in the 18th
and 19th centuries just couldn't go into
the water on the beach they had to use
bathing machines special carts that look
like beach huts
the carts were driven into the water so
that bathers could swim without any
prying eyes watching them furthermore
women's bathing machines were set some
distance away from men's and here's the
one I've been waiting for number one
rocks as toilet paper a list of things
that people use before the invention of
toilet paper could go on and on it
includes plant leaves corn cobs coconut
shells sheep wool and cloth for those
who could afford them sponge on a stick
or just water but the ancient Greek
surprised us the most for certain
hygienic purposes they use rocks pebbles
or shards of pottery excuse me
Socrates it is would you mind passing me
that shard
I forgot my corncob today well I don't
have a shard but to try this hemlock I
hear it does the job
so which fact has impressed you the most
heroin is a cough remedy or bloodletting
against all diseases share your thoughts
in the comments don't forget to hit the
like button below the video and share it
with your friends if you're visiting our
channel for the first time click
subscribe to join us on the bright side
of life
[Music]